---
title: 'New Year, New Regime.'
date: 2024-01-04
permalink: /posts/2024/01/NewYearsPost/
tags:
  - 2024
  - Market Outlook
  - Market Regime
---

New Year, New Regime.
======

On January 1st, I entered my local gym at 6:30 pm, as I had nearly every day for years. However, this day was different. Seemingly, everyone had decided to reinvent themselves in the gym this new year. Fitness is undoubtedly the most sure-fire option to capitalize on having a fruitful 2024. Year after year, countless people boast their summer body or running accolades that began with this resolution. While I wish the best for these new year’s “resolutioners,” I am left to begrudgingly find a new gym time. The same story can be told about the 2024 market outlook.

2023:
------

While 2023 began as a seemingly abysmal year for the economy, optimism about its performance quickly prevailed. In 2023, GDP rose by 2.7% yoy, the job market remained robust (sub-4% unemployment and +2.7 million payroll jobs), and the headline CPI was reported at 3.1% in December. The hopes of better economic performance and achievement of the coveted “goldilocks” scenario fueled fixed income and equity rallies: the S&P 500 +24% yoy, and 10-year treasury yields returned to where they started after touching 16-year highs around 5%. 


2024 Outlook:
------


Much like the gym, investors piled into equities that they knew best: the magnificent seven. This group of seven stocks rallied ~107% in 2023, accounting for most broad market performance. In 2024, investors must search beyond these large caps to generate alpha. Large caps on the high side of fair value seem less attractive. Investors can find healthy returns if they continue to diversify into sides of the markets with more modest valuations. The theme of 2024 can be categorized with a focus on valuations and selectivity, especially as the macro environment loses some of its power as a significant driver of markets amid economic uncertainty.


