---
title: 'Stock Pitch: $CCJ (High-level)'
date: 2022-07-21
permalink: /posts/2022/07/JulPitchCCJ/
tags:
  - 2022
  - Pitch
  - Equities
---

Stock Pitch: $CCJ
---

As a result of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, many countries have taken action to impose sanctions on Russia. Russia has responded with threats to cut national gas flows to Europe to as low as 20% of capacity. This can significantly impact Europe, as 45% of natural gas supplies come from Russia. Along with geopolitical tensions, net-zero transitions have brought attention to green alternative energy sources, exhibiting the alignment of geopolitical and environmental priorities. 

Considering the macroeconomic landscape, the uranium industry and nuclear energy are positioned as leading alternative energy sources. Nuclear power has been ridiculed for decades due to catastrophes involving nuclear waste. Today, nuclear energy only accounts for about 10% of the world's energy, but many countries are turning back to nuclear because of these circumstances. 

The European Parliament voted to label nuclear energy as GREEN energy, adding it to its green taxonomy as a transition fuel. 
This recent acceptance is for good reason, as no other green energy technology can replicate nuclear's contribution. Not only does nuclear energy provide a clean energy profile, but it is also reliable, secure, and affordable. 

Within this industry, Cameco Corporation is uniquely positioned to capitalize on the transition back to nuclear energy. Cameco is a market leader in uranium fuel services, holding the world's largest uranium deposits. Cameco is also strategically positioned to capitalize on future demand. 

Coming from decades of scrutiny and a recent market downturn of nuclear energy, I believe that the market isn't currently pricing in nuclear energy's alignment with environmental and geopolitical priorities. Three catalysts will lead the market to realize this value: technology, climate policy, and societal preferences.
Cameco recently beat earnings, having a reported EPS of $0.18 and posting an EV to EBITDA ratio of 52.1x. Cameco has seen an elevated EV to EBITDA multiple due to severely compressed EBITDA related to production curtailments. Uranium Energy Corp, a competitor, posted an EV to EBITDA ratio of 148.07; considering these factors, I would buy Cameco Corp and hold for the long term.



