---
title: 'Market Uncertainty'
date: 2024-01-16
permalink: /posts/2024/01/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - Market Outlook
  - Equities
  - FFR
---

On Inflation & the FFR:
======

In December, inflation edged up slightly above consensus, marking a pause in the steady decline in inflation. Headline CPI clocked in at 3.4% yoy, and Core CPI was reported at 3.9% yoy, both up 30bps from November. Notable contributions to the uptick in inflation include Rent/OER and auto insurance. On the other hand, we continued to see declines in food and energy prices, as most of the work has been done to lower this component of inflation. In 2024, we can expect continued declines in food, energy prices, and some core goods, assuming no disruption of supply from ongoing uncertainties (i.e. geopolitical issues). This implies a need to redirect inflation-fighting efforts to different components of the CPI report. Members of the Fed seem to agree with this sentiment stating:


“Several participants assessed that healing in supply chains and labor supply was largely complete, and therefore continued progress on reducing inflation may need to come from further softening in product and labor demand with restrictive monetary policy continuing to play a central role.”


Areas of concern include Rent/OER and auto insurance, as they seem to be more “sticky.” With the dual mandate in mind and a strong labor market (+216K jobs, 3.7% unemployment, and 4.1% yoy wage growth in December), members of the FED don’t seem to be opposed to increasing rates to address these “sticky” areas of inflation and reach their 2% target. Succumbing to the pressure of inflation politics despite a resilient labor market could be dangerous. I believe that labor market normalization and improvement in these stubborn areas of inflation will pave the way for lower inflation and interest rates without the need for an increase in the FFR.

The Job Market & Stubborn Areas of Inflation:
------

Given the nature of rent/OER. the CPI’s reflects housing inflation with a lag. Rent was up 6.9% yoy, while rent on new leases was up just 3.1%. Decreased rent on new leases will gradually lower inflation. In addition, the housing supply should improve as there are over one million multi-family homes under construction. 

Similar to housing, auto insurance policies operate with a lag as well. The CPI report reflects the average of insurance rates in effect and not just new policies. A decrease in auto insurance prices should gradually lower inflation just like housing. 

Average hourly earnings raised 4.1% in December, marking the third straight month that wages have not fallen. While this is of concern, I don’t think that this trend is sustainable. Notably, job openings are falling and monthly quits are returning to pre-pandemic levels. All the while, real GDP growth is slowing. These factors exhibit a deterioration in labor demand, and likely a continuation of that trajectory.

Investment Implications:
------

Considering the current economic environment, I reiterate my emphasis on valuations and selectivity. Earnings should be in focus as a potential catalyst. While I don’t expect wage gain to erode profit margins, I believe that lowering inflation and the effect of higher interest rates will. That being said, one should avoid companies with pricy valuations that may inflate further and opt for undervalued areas of the market. However, given that the FED has implied the potential for rate hikes, I think it is important to monitor the progress in lowering inflation and labor demand in this search for modest valuations. The neutral-to-bullish sentiment expressed in this article may quickly flip to bearish. After all, market uncertainty is accompanied by volatility. 

